Threads are where computers do work.
One thread can do one thing at a time.
When we write code,
we are creating a to-do list for the thread we're using.
Going one task at a time,
the thread will follow our program until it reaches the end of the instructions.
Ninety-nine percent of the time you write JavaScript programs,
you will be writing single-threaded programs,
because JavaScript is a single threaded language.
A little bit more about threads.
Ever since computers were first invented,
there's been a drive to make them faster.
Recently, the most common way to make computing faster has been to add more threads.
Computers have cores of threads that operate together to run programs.
Your computer has a certain number of cores.
You might have taken this number into account when you purchased it.
Typically there are two threads per core,
so an eight-core machine has 16 threads,
16 processes that can be running at once.
But back to synchronous programming.
We now understand what a single-threaded program is.
Here is the most important thing to get out of this video.
Synchronous and asynchronous programming,
both happen on a single thread.
They are just two different ways of managing that thread.
If we know we are constrained to a single thread,
that only one thing can happen at a time,
then the game comes down to how well we manage
that single thread in order to complete tasks efficiently.
Synchronous programs are the most basic types of programs possible.
They make no effort to manage the thread.
Up to now, you might not have been thinking about your program in terms of efficiency.
So you were writing synchronous programs,
except where modern syntax automatically helps you do better.
This is where we get to the purpose of the entire course.
We are going to learn to manage our one thread like a boss,
because that is what asynchronous programming is all about.